Table of contents
Exit editor mode
Ask Learn
Ask Learn
Reading mode
Table of contents
Read in English
Add
Add to Plans
Edit
Copy Markdown
Print
Note
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
signing in
or
changing directories
.
Access to this page requires authorization. You can try
changing directories
.
What is Conditional Access?
Feedback
Summarize this article for me
Overview
Modern security extends beyond an organization's network perimeter to include user and device identity. Organizations now use identity-driven signals as part of their access control decisions. Microsoft Entra Conditional Access brings signals together, to make decisions, and enforce organizational policies. Conditional Access is Microsoft's
Zero Trust policy engine
taking signals from various sources into account when enforcing policy decisions.
Conditional Access policies at their simplest are if-then statements:
if
a user wants to access a resource,
then
they must complete an action. For example: If a user wants to access an application or service like Microsoft 365, then they must perform multifactor authentication to gain access.
Admins are faced with two primary goals:
Empower users to be productive wherever and whenever
Protect the organization's assets
Use Conditional Access policies to apply the right access controls when needed to keep your organization secure and don't interfere with productivity.
Important
Conditional Access policies are enforced after first-factor authentication is completed. Conditional Access isn't intended to be an organization's frontline defense for scenarios like denial-of-service (DoS) attacks, but it can use signals from these events to determine access.
Common signals
Conditional Access uses signals from various sources to make access decisions.
Some of these signals include:
User, group, or agent
Policies can be targeted to specific users, groups, and agents (Preview) giving admins fine-grained control over access.
Support for agent identities and agent users extends Zero Trust principles to AI workloads.
IP location information
Organizations can create IP address ranges that can be used when making policy decisions.
Admins can specif